1. Introduction
    a. Introduce title of work and author (use full name when first introduced; last name
    only in subsequent references); in your first sentence, provide some context for the
    work. Why do the people and the events of this work matter?

### REPLACE INDIAN WITH NATIVE AMERICAN ###

    The book Chief Left Hand by Margaret Coel offers unique views of the governor John
Evans. The people in the book who interacted with Evans were fun effected by his actions
and attitude. The events in this book matter because the actions against the Native
Americans by the US government completely changed the Native American's lives for the
worse. The US broke a shocking amount of treaties with the native Americans which caused
their supply of food and any other options than the buffalo to be inaccessible to them.
John Evan's decisive characteristic contributed to him strategically extinguish the Native
Americans, he also was very Irrational which caused him to eventually resort to a
desperate attempt to remove the Native Americans, Power was his final characteristic which
tied together all the previous traits and allowed the public to have support of him when
he was in a position of power. 

    b. Give brief overview of the work: What is the work about?
    c. Thesis: In one sentence, state three of this person’s significant traits and
    how/why they affect the other people and the events of this history.

2. How is this person revealed when first introduced by the author?

    The first trait that I noticed from Coel's writing was the decisiveness of Evans.
Utilizing his trait of power helped him be decisiveness. Being in power allowed him to
make quick decisions which are a trait of being decisive. One technique Evans used was to
over exaggerate, “Evans aware of this official indifference, consistently exaggerated the
gravity of the situation on the plains, maintaining that isolated cases of theft by the
Native Americans were part of a well-conceived and orchestrated plan to run whites out of
the region” (167). This over exaggeration helped his decisive plan to get rid of the
Native Americans. The definition of decisiveness is "having the power or quality of
deciding" (Merriam-Webster Dictionary). This definition is exactly what Evans is doing. He
has the power to make these decisions. Another example is how unnecessarily strict Evans
is on the Native Americans, “Together the new governor and the
preacher-turned-military-leader would hold the reins of power in the territory, never
relaxing their grip until the question of who owned the land, whites or Native Americans,
had been decisively resolved.”


    a. What is the first trait you noted? Include the adjective you chose to describe this
    person.
    b. How do you know? (What do others say about the person? What does the person do?
    What does this person say? How does the author describe the character?)
        I. Be sure to include at least two quotations from the work. After each quotation,
        include your inferences of the impact of this speech or action or description.
    c. How does this trait affect the story? (How does this trait help or hurt this
    individual’s relationships with others? Does it help/hurt him personally? Does it get
    him into or out of trouble?)

3. How does this individual change over time? Some changes are subtle. Look for those
slight alterations.
    
        
   The second trait in John Evans that I noted was his irrationality. Based on the
accounts of many people in Coel's book he was considered "hot headed", “As the historian
Grinnell put it, the governor, when his attempt to remove the Native Americans from the
land by legal means failed, lost his head and resolved to remove them by possible” (174).
This shows how Evan's lack of control combined with his power led to actions from the
United States government were often made out of impulse and were easily executed due to
his position of high power. An example where Evans applies this anger towards Native
Americans is "The idea that this country belonged to [the Native Americans] gets its most
ridiculous aspect from the proposition that a country a thousand miles long and five
hundred miles wide, one of the most fertile in the world, should belong to a few bands of
roving Native Americans, nomadic tribes, in fee as their own property". This quote shows
how often his anger (which led to his irrationality) was fueled by his patriotism. A sense
of pride for your country can often lead too far. I believe that most of his live was
fueled by patriotism saying that he ran for positions in the us government.

    1. What is trait two? Include the adjective you chose to describe this individual.
    2. How do you know? Consider changes in action, attitudes, beliefs, or self-concept.
    (What do others say about the person? What does the person do?)
        I. Be sure to include at least two quotations from the work. After each quotation,
        include your inferences of the impact of this speech or action or description.
    3. How does this trait affect the story? (How does this trait help or hurt the
    person’s relationships with others? Does it help/hurt him/her personally? Does it get
    him/her into or out of trouble?)
    4. Explain why this change is important to the person and/or the narrative.

4. Describe the person at the end of the work.
    1. What is trait three? Include the adjective you chose to describe this person.
    2. How do you know? (What do others say about this person? What does this person do?)
        I. Be sure to include at least two quotations from the work. After each quotation,
        include your inferences of the impact of this speech or action or description.
        (Explain how the quote illustrates how or why the person changed or stayed the
        same.)
    3. How does this trait affect the narrative? (How does this trait help or hurt this
    person’s relationships with others? Does it help/hurt him/her personally? Does it get
    him/her into or out of trouble?)
    4. Is the final change for better or worse?  Why?  If there is no change, is that good
    or bad for the person?

5. Conclusion
    1. Explain what you have learned through Coel’s characterization of this person and
    how you feel about what this person experienced and how these experiences impact your
    view of the world.
