  The first presentation gave me extra details on the invasion of Norway.  This helped
me have more context to what was happening in the book at the time and the scope of the
Norway invasion. Learning about the Nazis thoughts on Norway helped me further
understand the relationship the characters of the book had with the German soldiers, and
why they were relationships were  as they were.  For example one relationship I
understood better was the relationship between Trond's father and the German guard. It
helped me further understand the true resentment he actually had for the guard. The
exploration of the factors of Norwegian life that were affected by the Nazi invasion.
These details allowed me to see the behind the scenes details of the daily lives of the
characters.  For example I did know that most radio was banned in Norway. A detail that
would have affected the families in the book greatly. 

  The second presentation helped me further understand the scope of the resistance that
Trond's father and Jon's mother were part of. I learned that the name of the book "Out
Stealing Horses" is code for smuggling. This further clarified many parts of the book
where I did not understand this code word.  Before leaning this I questioned why Trond's
father would be saying this when he wasn't actually going to literally steal horses. I
learned that Trond's father and Jon's mother were not just a small part of the
resistance. There were many more forces that were working against the Nazis. Most of the
Norwegians in fact were part of the resistance. This resolved questions I had asked
during the reading about whether it was like this in many neighborhoods or how many
neighborhoods operated like the one in the book.

  The presentation on literary techniques help me understand deeper meanings of literary
Techniques that Petterson used throughout the book. I realized because of the
presentation that many similes and metaphors were there to show how deep his bond was
with nature. Petterson had shown that he wasn't just a part of nature, he was one with
the nature. I also further considered the theme of silence and secrecy throughout the
book. I understood how in many scenes of the book, like with Trond and his father there
was no talking during these scenes.  The presentation brought this to light for me.
